---
title: "FAQ"
bg: emerald
color: white
fa-icon: question
---

To learn more about open source initiatives at JetBrains, please explore the FAQ below. If you have a question is not answered here, please feel free to share it in our [forum](http://jetbrains.net/devnet/community/idea/ideacommunity?view=discussions).

## IntelliJ Platform FAQ

### What is the IntelliJ Platform?

The IntelliJ Platform is an platform built and maintained by JetBrains that provides the underlying the APIs for all our IDEs, starting with IntelliJ IDEA, and extending to many home-grown and third-party IDEs, including Android Studio, Cursive Clojure, RubyMine, PhpStorm, WebStorm, and PyCharm. Primarily composed of a set of APIs for writing Java applications, it has grown to support a wide variety of developer tools and plugins. You can use the IntelliJ Platform SDK to write plugins for IntelliJ Platform IDEs or build your own custom IDE by using the same set of APIs.

### Why open source the IntelliJ Platform?

Today's software doesn't stand still. As much as we enjoy building tools for making you more productive, we also believe that IntelliJ IDEA is just a small part of something much bigger. By open sourcing the intelligence behind IntelliJ IDEA, we are able to share great ideas with the community and learn new ones from talented developers like you. Together with your feedback and contributions, we can help build a better class of tools for developers everywhere.

### Which parts of IntelliJ IDEA are available as open source?

The IntelliJ Platform is comprised of APIs for understanding source code, as well as a common user interface for building developer tools. The core APIs consist of a parser and lexer, which are extended with various language-specific bindings. Programming support for many languages is open source, including Java, Python, and Kotlin. Others are available as proprietary plugins and custom IDEs, such as C/C++, Ruby, JavaScript and Swift. Support for certain enterprise frameworks and commercial stacks is closed. Almost everything else, from the filesystem to the debugger is completely open for you to modify and redistribute.

### What license is used for the IntelliJ Platform and IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition, and why was this license chosen?

The Apache 2.0 license was chosen for both the IntelliJ Platform and IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition. For the full text of the license see: [http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

We chose the Apache 2.0 license because it is a very open license which lets anyone create both open source and commercial products on top of our platform. The Apache 2.0 license allows developers to mix our code with their code under basically any license, which gives developers great flexibility in how they reuse our code. This enables JetBrains to spread the usage of our platform as well as increase the number of people knowledgeable about IntelliJ APIs.

### How will existing customers benefit from open-sourcing the IntelliJ platform and IDEA Community Edition?

Existing customers will benefit greatly from the open source project:

- Wider user base means more plug-ins and more features developed by the community and available for all
- Better quality thanks to community testing and regular quality assurance by JetBrains
- More and earlier community feedback leading to better implementation of features
- More available documentation thanks to community contributions
- More languages and frameworks supported on top of the platform thanks to community contributions
- As more people learn and use the platform and the IDE, it will become easier to find people with a good knowledge of IntelliJ IDEA (both for hiring and for consulting)

For our customers, we see it as a win-win situation. We're not changing the way we build IDEA, so the quality and the number of features will only improve.

### What is the pricing for IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate Edition?

To learn about different pricing options (including free licenses for open source projects), please visit the [Licensing/Upgrade page](http://www.jetbrains.com/idea/buy/index.jsp) of the official JetBrains website.

### Is there a book about IntelliJ IDEA?

There's an old book about IntelliJ IDEA 4 and 5. Although the feature set has evolved quite a bit, the concepts are still the same, so you can still benefit from reading this book. Please see: [http://www.manning.com/fields3](http://www.manning.com/fields3)

A new book about IntelliJ IDEA is currently under negotiation with the editor, so stay tuned.

### Is it possible to use third-party plug-ins in IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition?

The plug-in architectures and APIs are the same for the Community Edition and the Ultimate Edition. Compatibility will depend on the dependencies of the plug-in you want to install. Plug-ins that rely on functionality not available in the Community Edition (for example, JavaScript, CSS or Java EE) will only run on IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate.

### Can I take plugins from the IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate distribution and install them in IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition?

No. They will not work.

### How do I get involved?

See the [How to Contribute](http://www.jetbrains.org/display/IJOS/Contribute) section of this site.

### How much code is currently being developed by JetBrains employees and how much by the community?

Even before going open-source, IntelliJ IDEA had a lot of community contributions. Many features of IntelliJ IDEA began their life as open-source third-party plug-ins, and some of their authors kept working on them after they were bundled into IntelliJ IDEA.

As for the core code, almost all of it is being developed by JetBrains employees, and we don't expect that to change in the near future. However, as community members continuously gain trust based on their high-quality contributions, they can gain committer status and get more influence over their respective area of contributions. Thus, we expect community participation to grow over time.

### How do I get the IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition sources?

The source files of the Community Edition reside in the public git repository. To get access to the code, please follow the provided[instructions](http://www.jetbrains.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=983225).

## IntelliJ Platform FAQ

### What is the IntelliJ Platform?

The IntelliJ Platform is a platform for building IDEs, currently used as the foundation for IntelliJ IDEA, RubyMine, PyCharm, WebStorm, PhpStorm, AppCode, MPS and other products currently in development at JetBrains.

The platform provides a comprehensive set of tools for building IDEs, including:

- virtual file system
- UI framework (action system, toolwindows, etc.)
- text editor
- lexing, parsing, abstract syntax trees and other language-specific infrastructure
- frameworks for implementing navigation, code completion, inspections, intentions, refactorings, etc.
- version control integration
- debugger framework
- graphical unit test runner

All of this functionality is not tied to any particular programming language.

### Is the IntelliJ Platform a general-purpose platform, suitable for building any desktop applications, similar to Eclipse RCP and the NetBeans Platform?

The IntelliJ Platform is great for building IDEs and other tools geared for developers. It is not, however, a general-purpose platform. We don't recommend building general-purpose desktop applications on top of the platform, since a lot of IDE-related concepts are still present in the platform itself.

### Can I build a commercial product on top of the IntelliJ Platform?

Yes, you can, according to the terms of the Apache 2 license. We encourage developers to build both open source and commercial products on top of the platform.

### Does the IntelliJ Platform require me to use a specific user interface toolkit?

Yes, the IntelliJ Platform is built on Swing, so your application based on the IntelliJ Platform will be Swing-based as well.

### Are there any plans to open-source other JetBrains products?

This definitely is not among our nearest plans. For now, we are going to keep building new affordable products on our platform - and time will show how the situation evolves in the IDE market.